OSDOCS-9427: adds multus procedures MicroShift (#75027)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/microshift-cni-multus-nad-bridge-nw-config.adoc

====

.Prerequisites

* The {microshift-short} Multus CNI is installed.
* The OpenShift CLI (`oc`) is installed.
* The cluster is running.

.Procedure

. Optional: Verify that the {microshift-short} cluster is running with the Multus CNI by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods -n openshift-multus
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
dhcp-daemon-dfbzw   1/1     Running   0          5h
multus-rz8xc        1/1     Running   0          5h
----

. Create a `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` configuration file by running the following command and using the following example file for reference:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f network-attachment-definition.yaml
----
+
.Example `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` file
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: "k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1"
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: bridge-conf
spec:
  config: '{
      "cniVersion": "0.4.0",
      "type": "bridge", <1>
      "bridge": "br-test", <2>
      "mode": "bridge",
      "ipam": {
        "type": "host-local", <3>
        "ranges": [

>           [

Reviewer: We support dual stack for pod's secondary interface,  You can add IPv6 addresses referenced by https://polarion.engineering.redhat.com/polarion/#/project/OSE/workitem?id=OCP-72796

Reviewer 2: Although IPv6 should work with the additional network. I'd suggest we wait to include IPv6 examples in the docs until the full MicroShift cluster can support IPv6, with 4.17.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * microshift_networking/microshift_multiple_networks/microshift-cni-multus-using.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="microshift-cni-multus-nad-bridge-nw-config_{context}"]

> = Creating a NetworkAttachmentDefinition for the bridge additional network

Author: Bridge additional network is correct, see the [OCP Multus doc](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.15/networking/multiple_networks/configuring-additional-network.html#nw-multus-bridge-object_configuring-additional-network). "Additional bridge network" grammatically implies that you already have one bridge network and are adding another (_which I don't know if is actually possible?_).  NetworkAttachmentDefinition isn't ever spelled out that I could find in the existing docs. The [API spec uses it just like that](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.15/rest_api/network_apis/networkattachmentdefinition-k8s-cni-cncf-io-v1.html), but we go back and forth in the OCP docs between that and `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` object. Doesn't seem to be any consensus. I know we can't use backticks in headings, so I'll leave this one, but maybe we can take this to the style council at some point?

> Use the following procedure to create a `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` configuration file for a bridge-type additional network. You can also use the example workflow here that uses `host-local` IP address management (IPAM) to configure other supported additional network types.

Reviewer 3: If this is the same proc for all three types, consider making the title and intro generic and then having some statement about the proc using the `bridge` type as an example. 

Just thinking that if I am using a type other than `bridge`, I might see this as a `bridge` proc and glaze over it even though I can use it too.

Author: That's a great point.

dhcp-daemon-dfbzw   1/1     Running   0          5h
multus-rz8xc        1/1     Running   0          5h
----

. Create a `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` configuration file by running the following command and using the following example file for reference:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f network-attachment-definition.yaml
----
+
.Example `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` file
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: "k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1"
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: bridge-conf
spec:
  config: '{
      "cniVersion": "0.4.0",
      "type": "bridge", <1>
      "bridge": "br-test", <2>
      "mode": "bridge",
      "ipam": {
        "type": "host-local", <3>
        "ranges": [
          [
            {
              "subnet": "10.10.0.0/24",
              "rangeStart": "10.10.0.20",
              "rangeEnd": "10.10.0.50",
              "gateway": "10.10.0.254"
             }
          ],
          [
            {
              "subnet": "fd00:IJKL:MNOP:10::0/64", <4>
              "rangeStart": "fd00:IJKL:MNOP:10::1",
              "rangeEnd": "fd00:IJKL:MNOP:10::9"
        "dataDir": "/var/lib/cni/br-test"
      }
    }'
----

> <1> The `type` value specifies a name of the CNI plugin. In this example, "bridge" is used.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<1> The `type` value specifies a name of the CNI plugin. This example uses the `bridge` type.
```

> <2> The `bridge` value is name of the bridge on the {microshift-short} host that is used. The additional interface of the pod is connected to that bridge. If the interface does not exist on the host, the Bridge CNI creates it. If the interface already exists, it is reused. In this example, the name of the interface is "br-test".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<2> The `bridge` value is name of the bridge on the {microshift-short} host that is used. The additional interface of the pod is connected to that bridge. If the interface does not exist on the host, the Bridge CNI creates it. If the interface already exists, it is reused. In this example, the name of the interface is `br-test`.
```

> <3> The IP address management (IPAM) type.

Reviewer 3: You've defined this above, if you want to shorten you can
```suggestion
<3> The IPAM type.
```
